.TH conf-gpgpy 5 "March 02007" "gpgpy-ezmlm" "Manual of gpgpy-ezmlm"
.SH NAME
conf-gpgpy \- format and available configuration options of the mailing list
specific configuration file for encryption via gpgpy-ezmlm
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file \fBconf-gpgpy\fR is used by the encryption wrapper gpgpy-ezmlm that
can be integrated into the ezmlm-idx mailing list manager.
.PP
If a mailing list directory contains the file \fBconf-gpgpy\fR, then encryption
support is enabled for the list. The manual of \fIgpgpy-ezmlm-manage\fR(1)
tells you how to create this file.
.SH FORMAT
An entry in \fBconf-gpgpy\fR has the following format:
.RS
.sp
\fIOPTION\fP = \fIVALUE\fP
.sp
.RE
.PP
.IP \fIOPTION\fP
the name of a setting
.br
surrounding whitespaces are stripped
.br
case does not matter
.IP \fIVALUE\fP
the value of a setting
.br
may be enclosed in double or single quotes
.br
surrounding whitespaces are stripped
.br
case usually matters
.br
boolean values must be `no' or `yes' (case independent)
.PP
Lines are ignored if they start with `#', do not contain `=' or are empty.
.SH AVAILABLE OPTIONS
.IP \fBplain_without_key\fP
If there is no valid key available for a recipient, then she should receive the
message in plaintext. Otherwise a warning message is sent instead of the
encrypted part.
.br
.sp
Possible values are `no' or `yes'.
.br
.sp
The default value is `no'.
.IP \fBsign_messages\fP
Sign all outgoing mails with the key of the mailing list.
.br
.sp
Possible values are `no' or `yes'.
.br
.sp
The default value is `no'.
.IP \fBgnupg_dir\fP
The given directory contains the gnupg keyring for this mailing list.
Values starting with a slash (`/') are interpreted as absolute paths.
Values starting with a tilde (`~') are subject to user expansion.
All other paths are interpreted relative to the mailing list directory.
.br
.sp
The default value is `.gnupg', thus each mailing list uses its own keyring by
default.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is the default content of a \fBconf-gpgpy\fP file, as it is
created by \fBgpgpy-ezmlm-manage\fP:
.RS
.sp
.nf
plain_without_key = no
sign_messages = no
gnupg_dir = .gnupg
.SH FILES
conf-gpgpy
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Lars Kruse
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <devel@sumpfralle.de>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 02006-02007 Lars Kruse
.br
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the
GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. There is NO
WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
gpgpy-ezmlm(5), gpgpy-ezmlm-manage(1), gpgpy-ezmlm-encrypt(1), gpgpy-ezmlm-queue(1)

